README.md, before:


# Local Audio Server for Yomichan

This [Anki add-on](https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/1045800357)
runs a local server of which Yomichan can fetch audio files from.
With this setup, you are able to create Anki cards nearly instantaneously,
and get word audio without a working internet connection.

<sup>
P.S. Feel free to check out <a href="https://aquafina-water-bottle.github.io/jp-mining-note/jpresources/">my other resources</a> if you're interested!
</sup>

## Reasons for and against this setup

<details> <summary><b>Advantages:</b> <i>(click here)</i> </summary>

1. Most audio is gotten in **almost instantly**. Without the local audio server,
    fetching the audio can take anywhere from three seconds to a full minute
    (on particularly bad days).

    Most of the delay from Yomichan when creating cards is from fetching the audio.
    In other words, getting the audio is the main bottleneck of when creating Anki cards.
    This add-on removes the aforementioned bottleneck, meaning **you can make cards with virtually 0 delay**.

1. If you do not have internet access, you can still add audio to your cards.

</details>

<details> <summary><b>Disadvantages:</b> <i>(click here)</i> </summary>

1. This setup requires about **5GB of free space**.

1. It only has the coverage of JPod 101, NHK 2016, and select audio from Forvo
    (which is still very high, as over 200,000 unique expressions are covered).
    To increase audio coverage, it would be ideal to also include an extra
    [Forvo audio source](https://learnjapanese.moe/yomichan/#bonus-adding-forvo-extra-audio-source).

</details>


## Steps

<!-- TODO uncomment when AnkiconnectAndroid release is close to being out as well
These instructions only work on the PC release of Anki.
If you wish to use this on AnkiDroid, see [here](https://github.com/KamWithK/AnkiconnectAndroid).
There is currently no way of using this on AnkiMobile.
-->

1. Download all the required audio files.
    They can be found at this [torrent link](https://nyaa.si/view/1625597).
    If you have never downloaded from a torrent before, I highly recommend using the
    [qBittorrent](https://www.qbittorrent.org/) client.

    <details> <summary>Magnet link <i>(click here)</i></summary>

        magnet:?xt=urn:btih:15f4557bc3e5464609bc1f9ac444db3611b97541&dn=Yomichan%20Japanese%20Local%20Audio%20-%20JapanesePod101%20%28JPod%29%2C%20NHK%2C%20Forvo%20Select%20Users&tr=http%3A%2F%2Fnyaa.tracker.wf%3A7777%2Fannounce&tr=udp%3A%2F%2Fopen.stealth.si%3A80%2Fannounce&tr=udp%3A%2F%2Ftracker.opentrackr.org%3A1337%2Fannounce&tr=udp%3A%2F%2Fexodus.desync.com%3A6969%2Fannounce&tr=udp%3A%2F%2Ftracker.torrent.eu.org%3A451%2Fannounce

    </details>

1. [Download the add-on](https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/1045800357):
    * Within Anki, navigate to `Tools` →  `Add-ons` →  `Get Add-ons...`
    * Copy and paste this code: `1045800357`

        ![image](./img/addons_install.png)

    This add-on only works for Anki versions 2.1.50 and above.
    If you are using Anki versions 2.1.49 or below, I highly recommend updating.
    If you can't do this for whatever reason, the legacy instructions and add-on can be found
    [here](https://github.com/Aquafina-water-bottle/local-audio-yomichan/tree/old).

1. Move the downloaded audio files to the correct place.
    * Within the same Add-ons window, select the add-on (`Local Audio Server for Yomichan`).
    * Click `View files` to the right. Your file explorer should now be under `Anki2/addons21/1045800357`.

        ![image](./img/view_files.png)

    * Copy the entire `user_files` folder (from the first step) into this folder.
      Note: the other files in the torrent are now outdated, and should **not** be copied.

        <details> <summary>Expected file structure <i>(click here)</i></summary>

            1045800357
            ├── db_utils.py
            ├── server.py
            ├── ...
            └── user_files
                ├── forvo_files
                │   ├── akitomo
                │   │   └── 目的.mp3
                │   ├── kaoring
                │   │   └── ...
                │   └── ...
                ├── jpod_alternate_files
                │   ├── よむ - 読む.mp3
                │   └── ...
                ├── jpod_files
                │   ├── よむ - 読む.mp3
                │   └── ...
                └── nhk16_files
                    ├── audio
                    │   ├── 20170616125910.aac
                    │   └── ...
                    └── entries.json

        </details>

1. Add the URL in Yomichan.
    * In Yomichan Settings ![image](./img/yomichan_cog.svg), go to:
      > `Audio` →  `Configure audio playback sources`.

        ![image](./img/configre_audio_playback_sources.png)

    * Click `Add`, and set the source to be `Add Custom URL (JSON)`.
    * Set the `URL` field to:
        ```
        http://localhost:5050/?sources=jpod,jpod_alternate,nhk16,forvo&term={term}&reading={reading}
        ```

        Set this to be the **first entry** of the list,
        if you already have other entries.

1. Restart Anki. You should see a message saying "Generating local audio database",
    and should take some time to finish.

1. Ensure that everything works. To do this, play some audio from Yomichan.
    You should notice two things:

    - The audio should be played almost immediately after clicking the play button.
        Note that if you're using the memory based version,
        the first audio play will take a while to load as mentioned above (in the comparison).
    - After playing the audio, you should be able to see the available sources
        by right-clicking on the play button.

        Here is an example for 読む:

        ![image](./img/yomu.gif)

    Play all the sources from the above (読む) to ensure the sound is properly fetched.

## Optional Steps: Backfill cards
DillonWall made [a fantastic add-on](https://github.com/DillonWall/generate-batch-audio-anki-addon)
that can backfill cards from any custom URL, including this local audio server.


## Troubleshooting
These are additional instructions and tips if something doesn't work as expected.

*   Make sure the database was properly generated.

    To determine if the database was properly generated,
    navigate to `Tools` →  `Local Audio Server` →  `Get number of entries per source`.
    The expected result is the image below:

    ![image](./img/num_per_source.png)

    If there are missing sources, or you see "Database is empty", that means that
    the audio files were either misplaced, or Anki was restarted before moving
    the audio files into the proper location.

    Ensure that within step 3, your file structure matches the expected file structure,
    and then try regenerating the database
    by navigating to `Tools` →  `Local Audio Server` →  `Regenerate database`.

*   Ensure you haven't copied any files from the torrent outside of `user_files`.
    If you have (or suspect you may have):
    * Temporarily move the `user_files` folder outside of the add-on folder (to avoid re-downloading the audio files torrent again).
    * Delete the add-on.
    * Start again from step 2.

*   If nothing else works, you have questions, etc., feel free to contact
    me on discord `Aquafina water bottle#3026`,
    or [submit an issue](https://github.com/Aquafina-water-bottle/local-audio-yomichan/issues).
    I exist on the [TheMoeWay](https://learnjapanese.moe/join/) and Refold (Japanese) servers.


## Usage Notes

* The local audio server only works when Anki is open. Of course, it can be running minimized in the background.

* The sources can be rearranged to give priority to a different source.
    For example, if you want Forvo to have the highest priority, use
    `sources=forvo,jpod,jpod_alternate,nhk16`
    (under the Custom URL step).

* For Forvo audio specifically, you can modify the priority of users by using `&user=`.

    For example, the following will get forvo audio in the priority of strawberrybrown, then akitomo. All other users **will not be included in the search**.
    ```
    http://localhost:5050/?sources=jpod,jpod_alternate,nhk16,forvo&term={term}&reading={reading}&user=strawberrybrown,akitomo
    ```

<details> <summary>Notes on Forvo Audio Sourcing <i>(click here)</i></summary>

* The following is a slightly edited quote from person who got the Forvo audio:

    > The files for now only includes audio files with an exact 1:1 mapping of a dictionary/Marv's JPDB frequency list term to the name of the file the user uploaded. Just because you don't get audio for an user it does not mean the user has no audio on Forvo. Just because you get audio it does not mean it actually matches the current word/reading. It is also not uncommon that people pronounce multiple readings in the same file.

    The full quote can be found at the bottom of [the legacy instructions](https://github.com/Aquafina-water-bottle/local-audio-yomichan/tree/old), under "Original Message for v09".

</details>


## Credits & Acknowledgements
A lot of people came together, one way or the other, to get this add-on to where it is today.
Huge thanks to everyone who made it happen:

* **`Zetta#3033`**: Creator of the original addon + advice for improving query speed
* **`kezi#0001`**: Getting NHK16 audio
* **`(anonymous)`**: Adding SQL + NHK16 audio support
* **`Renji-xD#8182`**: Getting Forvo audio, adding Forvo audio support
* **`Marv#5144`**: Creating and maintaining the torrent + testing out the rewritten add-on
* **`shoui 🐈#0520`**: Maintaining and popularizing the original set of instructions that these instructions were initially based off of
* **`jamesnicolas`**: Creator of [Yomichan Forvo Server for Anki](https://github.com/jamesnicolas/yomichan-forvo-server). The original code was heavily based off of this project.
* **`KamWithK`**: Creator of [Ankiconnect Android](https://github.com/KamWithK/AnkiconnectAndroid). This allows the local audio server to work on Android. Also gave advice for improving the database.
* **`DillonWall`**: Creator of [Generate Batch Audio](https://github.com/DillonWall/generate-batch-audio-anki-addon). This allows you to backfill existing cards with the local audio server, or anything else.


## License
[MIT](https://github.com/Aquafina-water-bottle/local-audio-yomichan/blob/master/LICENSE)

Commit message:

added warning on nhk files on iphone

README.md, after:


# Local Audio Server for Yomichan

This [Anki add-on](https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/1045800357)
runs a local server of which Yomichan can fetch audio files from.
With this setup, you are able to create Anki cards nearly instantaneously,
and get word audio without a working internet connection.

<sup>
P.S. Feel free to check out <a href="https://aquafina-water-bottle.github.io/jp-mining-note/jpresources/">my other resources</a> if you're interested!
</sup>

## Reasons for and against this setup

<details> <summary><b>Advantages:</b> <i>(click here)</i> </summary>

1. Most audio is gotten in **almost instantly**. Without the local audio server,
    fetching the audio can take anywhere from three seconds to a full minute
    (on particularly bad days).

    Most of the delay from Yomichan when creating cards is from fetching the audio.
    In other words, getting the audio is the main bottleneck of when creating Anki cards.
    This add-on removes the aforementioned bottleneck, meaning **you can make cards with virtually 0 delay**.

1. If you do not have internet access, you can still add audio to your cards.

</details>

<details> <summary><b>Disadvantages:</b> <i>(click here)</i> </summary>

1. This setup requires about **5GB of free space**.

1. It only has the coverage of JPod 101, NHK 2016, and select audio from Forvo
    (which is still very high, as over 200,000 unique expressions are covered).
    To increase audio coverage, it would be ideal to also include an extra
    [Forvo audio source](https://learnjapanese.moe/yomichan/#bonus-adding-forvo-extra-audio-source).

</details>


## Steps

<!-- TODO uncomment when AnkiconnectAndroid release is close to being out as well
These instructions only work on the PC release of Anki.
If you wish to use this on AnkiDroid, see [here](https://github.com/KamWithK/AnkiconnectAndroid).
There is currently no way of using this on AnkiMobile.
-->

1. Download all the required audio files.
    They can be found at this [torrent link](https://nyaa.si/view/1625597).
    If you have never downloaded from a torrent before, I highly recommend using the
    [qBittorrent](https://www.qbittorrent.org/) client.

    <details> <summary>Magnet link <i>(click here)</i></summary>

        magnet:?xt=urn:btih:15f4557bc3e5464609bc1f9ac444db3611b97541&dn=Yomichan%20Japanese%20Local%20Audio%20-%20JapanesePod101%20%28JPod%29%2C%20NHK%2C%20Forvo%20Select%20Users&tr=http%3A%2F%2Fnyaa.tracker.wf%3A7777%2Fannounce&tr=udp%3A%2F%2Fopen.stealth.si%3A80%2Fannounce&tr=udp%3A%2F%2Ftracker.opentrackr.org%3A1337%2Fannounce&tr=udp%3A%2F%2Fexodus.desync.com%3A6969%2Fannounce&tr=udp%3A%2F%2Ftracker.torrent.eu.org%3A451%2Fannounce

    </details>

1. [Download the add-on](https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/1045800357):
    * Within Anki, navigate to `Tools` →  `Add-ons` →  `Get Add-ons...`
    * Copy and paste this code: `1045800357`

        ![image](./img/addons_install.png)

    This add-on only works for Anki versions 2.1.50 and above.
    If you are using Anki versions 2.1.49 or below, I highly recommend updating.
    If you can't do this for whatever reason, the legacy instructions and add-on can be found
    [here](https://github.com/Aquafina-water-bottle/local-audio-yomichan/tree/old).

1. Move the downloaded audio files to the correct place.
    * Within the same Add-ons window, select the add-on (`Local Audio Server for Yomichan`).
    * Click `View files` to the right. Your file explorer should now be under `Anki2/addons21/1045800357`.

        ![image](./img/view_files.png)

    * Copy the entire `user_files` folder (from the first step) into this folder.
      Note: the other files in the torrent are now outdated, and should **not** be copied.

        <details> <summary>Expected file structure <i>(click here)</i></summary>

            1045800357
            ├── db_utils.py
            ├── server.py
            ├── ...
            └── user_files
                ├── forvo_files
                │   ├── akitomo
                │   │   └── 目的.mp3
                │   ├── kaoring
                │   │   └── ...
                │   └── ...
                ├── jpod_alternate_files
                │   ├── よむ - 読む.mp3
                │   └── ...
                ├── jpod_files
                │   ├── よむ - 読む.mp3
                │   └── ...
                └── nhk16_files
                    ├── audio
                    │   ├── 20170616125910.aac
                    │   └── ...
                    └── entries.json

        </details>

1. Add the URL in Yomichan.
    * In Yomichan Settings ![image](./img/yomichan_cog.svg), go to:
      > `Audio` →  `Configure audio playback sources`.

        ![image](./img/configre_audio_playback_sources.png)

    * Click `Add`, and set the source to be `Add Custom URL (JSON)`.
    * Set the `URL` field to:
        ```
        http://localhost:5050/?sources=jpod,jpod_alternate,nhk16,forvo&term={term}&reading={reading}
        ```

        Set this to be the **first entry** of the list,
        if you already have other entries.

1. Restart Anki. You should see a message saying "Generating local audio database",
    and should take some time to finish.

1. Ensure that everything works. To do this, play some audio from Yomichan.
    You should notice two things:

    - The audio should be played almost immediately after clicking the play button.
        Note that if you're using the memory based version,
        the first audio play will take a while to load as mentioned above (in the comparison).
    - After playing the audio, you should be able to see the available sources
        by right-clicking on the play button.

        Here is an example for 読む:

        ![image](./img/yomu.gif)

    Play all the sources from the above (読む) to ensure the sound is properly fetched.

## Optional Steps: Backfill cards
DillonWall made [a fantastic add-on](https://github.com/DillonWall/generate-batch-audio-anki-addon)
that can backfill cards from any custom URL, including this local audio server.


## Troubleshooting
These are additional instructions and tips if something doesn't work as expected.

*   Make sure the database was properly generated.

    To determine if the database was properly generated,
    navigate to `Tools` →  `Local Audio Server` →  `Get number of entries per source`.
    The expected result is the image below:

    ![image](./img/num_per_source.png)

    If there are missing sources, or you see "Database is empty", that means that
    the audio files were either misplaced, or Anki was restarted before moving
    the audio files into the proper location.

    Ensure that within step 3, your file structure matches the expected file structure,
    and then try regenerating the database
    by navigating to `Tools` →  `Local Audio Server` →  `Regenerate database`.

*   Ensure you haven't copied any files from the torrent outside of `user_files`.
    If you have (or suspect you may have):
    * Temporarily move the `user_files` folder outside of the add-on folder (to avoid re-downloading the audio files torrent again).
    * Delete the add-on.
    * Start again from step 2.

*   If nothing else works, you have questions, etc., feel free to contact
    me on discord `Aquafina water bottle#3026`,
    or [submit an issue](https://github.com/Aquafina-water-bottle/local-audio-yomichan/issues).
    I exist on the [TheMoeWay](https://learnjapanese.moe/join/) and Refold (Japanese) servers.


## Known Issues
* NHK16 audio files are saved as .aac, but they are saved as .mp3 files on the disk,
    which will crash the iphone app.
    This will be fixed once Yomichan updates their stable version with
    [this PR](https://github.com/FooSoft/yomichan/pull/2302)


## Usage Notes

* The local audio server only works when Anki is open. Of course, it can be running minimized in the background.

* The sources can be rearranged to give priority to a different source.
    For example, if you want Forvo to have the highest priority, use
    `sources=forvo,jpod,jpod_alternate,nhk16`
    (under the Custom URL step).

* For Forvo audio specifically, you can modify the priority of users by using `&user=`.

    For example, the following will get forvo audio in the priority of strawberrybrown, then akitomo. All other users **will not be included in the search**.
    ```
    http://localhost:5050/?sources=jpod,jpod_alternate,nhk16,forvo&term={term}&reading={reading}&user=strawberrybrown,akitomo
    ```

<details> <summary>Notes on Forvo Audio Sourcing <i>(click here)</i></summary>

* The following is a slightly edited quote from person who got the Forvo audio:

    > The files for now only includes audio files with an exact 1:1 mapping of a dictionary/Marv's JPDB frequency list term to the name of the file the user uploaded. Just because you don't get audio for an user it does not mean the user has no audio on Forvo. Just because you get audio it does not mean it actually matches the current word/reading. It is also not uncommon that people pronounce multiple readings in the same file.

    The full quote can be found at the bottom of [the legacy instructions](https://github.com/Aquafina-water-bottle/local-audio-yomichan/tree/old), under "Original Message for v09".

</details>


## Credits & Acknowledgements
A lot of people came together, one way or the other, to get this add-on to where it is today.
Huge thanks to everyone who made it happen:

* **`Zetta#3033`**: Creator of the original addon + advice for improving query speed
* **`kezi#0001`**: Getting NHK16 audio
* **`(anonymous)`**: Adding SQL + NHK16 audio support
* **`Renji-xD#8182`**: Getting Forvo audio, adding Forvo audio support
* **`Marv#5144`**: Creating and maintaining the torrent + testing out the rewritten add-on
* **`shoui 🐈#0520`**: Maintaining and popularizing the original set of instructions that these instructions were initially based off of
* **`jamesnicolas`**: Creator of [Yomichan Forvo Server for Anki](https://github.com/jamesnicolas/yomichan-forvo-server). The original code was heavily based off of this project.
* **`KamWithK`**: Creator of [Ankiconnect Android](https://github.com/KamWithK/AnkiconnectAndroid). This allows the local audio server to work on Android. Also gave advice for improving the database.
* **`DillonWall`**: Creator of [Generate Batch Audio](https://github.com/DillonWall/generate-batch-audio-anki-addon). This allows you to backfill existing cards with the local audio server, or anything else.


## License
[MIT](https://github.com/Aquafina-water-bottle/local-audio-yomichan/blob/master/LICENSE)
